SE 4485: Software Engineering Projects

Fall 2024

Project Management Plan

+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| Group Number      | 3                                                |
+===================+==================================================+
| Project Title     | TBD                                              |
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| Sponsoring        | Raytheon                                         |
| Company           |                                                  |
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| Sponsor(s)        | Marc Perna, Trey Williams, Trevor A. Lang, Ryan  |
|                   | Havens                                           |
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| Students          | 1\. Brie Haynes                                  |
|                   |                                                  |
|                   | 2\. Srinesh Ganesh                               |
|                   |                                                  |
|                   | 3\. Josh Pahman                                  |
|                   |                                                  |
|                   | 4\. Victor Sim                                   |
|                   |                                                  |
|                   | 5\. Yousuf Al Makhamreh                          |
|                   |                                                  |
|                   | 6\. Gregory Rodriguez                            |
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------+

# 

# 

# 

# 

# 

# TITLE PAGE

ABSTRACT

This project management plan will outline the approach, strategies, and
processes that our team will use for the successful execution of
\[project name\]. The plan will cover all aspects of our project
management, including our project organization, controlling mechanisms,
and lifecycle methodology.

# TABLE OF CONTENTS

[TITLE PAGE [1](#title-page)](#title-page)

[TABLE OF CONTENTS [2](#table-of-contents)](#table-of-contents)

[LIST OF FIGURES [2](#list-of-figures)](#list-of-figures)

[LIST OF TABLES [2](#list-of-tables)](#list-of-tables)

[(PROPOSED) PROJECT ORGANIZATION
[2](#proposed-project-organization)](#proposed-project-organization)

[(PROPOSED) LIFECYCLE MODEL USED
[3](#proposed-lifecycle-model-used)](#proposed-lifecycle-model-used)

[RISK ANALYSIS [3](#risk-analysis)](#risk-analysis)

[SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS
[3](#software-and-hardware-resource-requirements)](#software-and-hardware-resource-requirements)

[DELIVERABLES AND SCHEDULE
[3](#deliverables-and-schedule)](#deliverables-and-schedule)

[(PROPOSED) MONITORING, REPORTING, AND CONTROLLING MECHANISMS
[3](#proposed-monitoring-reporting-and-controlling-mechanisms)](#proposed-monitoring-reporting-and-controlling-mechanisms)

[PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS
[4](#professional-standards)](#professional-standards)

[EVIDENCE THE DOCUMENT HAS BEEN PLACED UNDER CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
[4](#evidence-the-document-has-been-placed-under-configuration-management)](#evidence-the-document-has-been-placed-under-configuration-management)

#  

# LIST OF FIGURES

#  

# LIST OF TABLES

INTRODUCTION

The \[project name\] project aims to \[describe purpose of project\].

This Project Management Plan provides a cohesive overview of our
approach to managing the project, ensuring successful development. It
will outline our project organization, lifecycle model, risk analysis,
expected deliverables and schedule, monitoring, reporting, and
controlling mechanisms, as well as the professional standards that each
team member should adhere to. Through the use of this plan, we expect
the project to achieve its objectives efficiently and effectively.

# (PROPOSED) PROJECT ORGANIZATION

Our team will be divided into two groups, with three members assigned to
each one:

**Data and Analytics Team**

-   Clean, preprocess, and organize the data for analysis

-   Set up and manage the data pipeline (ingest, storage, and access)

-   Develop predictive models using the data

-   Collaborate with the Application Team to integrate the models into
    the app

**Application Team**

-   Design and build the user interface

-   Develop back-end logic and APIs to connect the UI with the data and
    models

-   Implement data visualizations

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Teams**               **Members**             **Role**
  ----------------------- ----------------------- -----------------------
  Data and Analytics                              

                                                  

                                                  

  Application                                     

                                                  

                                                  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

# (PROPOSED) LIFECYCLE MODEL USED

Our team will adopt the Agile methodology, specifically the Scrum
framework. This approach will foster a communicative and collaborative
environment, while offering flexibility and adaptability to change.
Additionally, it will enable us to continuously improve our work without
impeding our progress.

# RISK ANALYSIS

-   describe possible project risks, the likelihood of these risks
    arising, and the risk reduction strategies that are proposed

-   include the rationale.

#  

# SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS 

-   describe the software and hardware required to carry out the
    development.

-   both software and hardware must be available in the lab

-   include the rationale

# DELIVERABLES AND SCHEDULE 

-   describe the activities, dependencies between activities, the
    estimated time required to reach each milestone, and the allocation
    of people to activities

-   include the rationale

# (PROPOSED) MONITORING, REPORTING, AND CONTROLLING MECHANISMS

To ensure our project is successful, the following reports will be
produced regularly, providing insight into our team's progress:

-   Progress Reports: A detailed progress report will be generated at
    the end of each sprint to track completed tasks, ongoing activities,
    and any challenges encountered.

-   Quality Assurance Reports: These will be generated after each phase
    of testing. They will document test results, any identified faults,
    failures, or errors, and the steps taken to resolve them.

The control mechanisms that we will use include:

-   Kanban Boards: A Kanban Board will be used to track our tasks. It
    will provide different statuses for each one such as "To Do", "In
    Progress", and "Done". It will also provide a level of importance,
    such as "Low", "Medium", and "High", for prioritization.

-   Daily Updates: Team members will send a daily status update on their
    activities from the previous day in our communication channel.

#  

#  

#  

#  

# PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS

Please refer to Appendix A.

# EVIDENCE THE DOCUMENT HAS BEEN PLACED UNDER CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT

ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND MULTIPLE CONSTRAINTS

-   students should work with their project sponsor(s) to identify all
    the standards and constraints that should be applied for preparing
    this document

ADDITIONAL REFERENCES

-   include other related references that are not included the section
    above

**Appendix A.**

The following provides a professional standards guideline for the teams.
This guideline may be tailored. The professional standards must be
agreed upon by each member in the team.

**Guideline**

On the first occurrence of unacceptable behavior, determine the
circumstances involved, resolve the problem, and document the event in
the meeting minutes.

On a second occurrence, notify the instructor of the problem. A meeting
will be set up to evaluate the situation and resolve the problem.

On a third occurrence, again notify the instructor of the problem. A
meeting will be set up to evaluate the situation and resolve the
problem. At this point, the team will have the *option* of removing the
team member. If removed, then the team member receives a pro-rated grade
based on the number of weeks they have participated in the group.

Examples of unacceptable behavior may include not delivering on time,
delivering poor quality work, missing team meetings, being unprepared
for team meetings, disrespectful or rude behavior, etc. Reasons such as
"too busy" or "I forgot", or "my dog ate my design model" are
unacceptable.

Valid reasons that must be considered include those listed for obtaining
an incomplete standing in a course (illness, death in the family, travel
for business or academic reasons)
